New topic why migrate wcf to gRPC (#19768)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/grpc/why-migrate-wcf-to-dotnet-grpc.md

---
title: Why migrate WCF to ASP.NET Core gRPC
author: markrendle
description: A summary of why ASP.NET Core gRPC is a good fit for WCF developers who want to migrate to modern architectures and platforms.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.0'
ms.author: wpickett
ms.date: 09/02/2020
no-loc: ["ASP.NET Core Identity", cookie, Cookie, Blazor, "Blazor Server", "Blazor WebAssembly", "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: grpc/wcf
---

# Why we recommend gRPC for WCF developers

> This article provides a summary outlining why ASP.NET Core gRPC is a good fit for WCF developers who want to migrate to modern architectures and platforms.

Reviewer: I think we need to mention that WCF is not being ported to .NET Core/.NET 5 and gRPC is our recommended alternative.

@shirhatti What is the best way to say this?

Reviewer 2: Thanks for throwing the hot potato my way 😅

If it's only a brief introduction, I'm fine with the verbiage. I took a stab at making it a little stronger

> The release of .NET Core 3.0 marks a shift in the way that Microsoft delivers remote communication solutions to developers who want to deliver services across a range of platforms. .NET Core (and .NET 5) will **not** offer server-side support for the Windows Communication Foundation (WCF). With the release of ASP.NET Core 3.0, it does however provide built-in gRPC functionality.

If we want to go into more detail, this is probably the story we should tell
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4734691/92156845-69192680-edde-11ea-8ebe-5627127e2265.png)

Author: @shirhatti , Perfect, thanks!  If it is OK, I will pull in just this text, but also update it in the eBook to include it (I will create a new tracking issue), where this artwork would also reside.  Since this topic was meant to be a quick summary, that points to the eBook for details.  Then we are not keeping the artwork up in several languages in more than one place.

Reviewer: Just including the text for now is fine.

## Similarity to WCF

> Although the implementation and approach are different for gRPC, the experience of developing and consuming services with gRPC should be intuitive for WCF developers. The underlying goal is the same: make it possible to code as though the client and server are on the same platform, without needing to worry about networking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the implementation and approach are different for gRPC, the experience of developing and consuming services with gRPC should be intuitive for WCF developers. They are both RPC (remote procedure call) frameworks and the underlying goal is the same: make it possible to code as though the client and server are on the same platform, without needing to worry about networking.
```

> Both platforms share the principle of declaring and then implementing an interface, even though the process for declaring that interface is different. And as you'll see in chapter 5, the different types of RPC calls that gRPC supports map well to the bindings available to WCF services.

Reviewer: "And as you'll see in chapter 5" this doesn't mean anything to the reader. They haven't been told about the book yet.

## Benefits of gRPC

gRPC stands above other solutions for the following reasons.

### Performance

Using HTTP/2 rather than HTTP/1.1 removes the requirement for human-readable messages and instead uses the smaller, faster binary protocol. This is more efficient for computers to parse. HTTP/2 also supports multiplexing requests over a single connection. This support enables responses to be sent as soon as they're ready without the need to wait in a queue. (In HTTP/1.1, this issue is known as "head-of-line (HOL) blocking.") You need fewer resources when using gRPC, which makes it a good solution to use for mobile devices and over slower networks.

### Interoperability

There are gRPC tools and libraries for all major programming languages and platforms, including .NET, Java, Python, Go, C++, Node.js, Swift, Dart, Ruby, and PHP. Thanks to the Protocol Buffers binary wire format and the efficient code generation for each platform, developers can build performant apps while still enjoying full cross-platform support.

### Usability and productivity

> gRPC is a comprehensive RPC solution. It works consistently across multiple languages and platforms. It also provides excellent tooling, with much of the necessary boilerplate code automatically generated. So more developer time is freed up to focus on business logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gRPC is a comprehensive RPC solution. It works consistently across multiple languages and platforms. It also provides excellent tooling, with much of the necessary boilerplate code automatically generated. Like WCF, gRPC automatically generates messages and a strongly typed client for you. Developer time is freed up to focus on business logic.
```

### Streaming

gRPC has full bidirectional streaming, which provides similar functionality to WCF's full duplex services. gRPC streaming can operate over regular internet connections, load balancers, and service meshes.

### Deadline/timeouts and cancellation

gRPC allows clients to specify a maximum time for an RPC to finish. If the specified deadline is exceeded, the server can cancel the operation independently of the client. Deadlines and cancellations can be propagated through further gRPC calls to help enforce resource usage limits. Clients can also stop operations when a deadline is exceeded, or earlier if necessary (for example, because of a user interaction).

### Security

> gRPC is implicitly secure when it's using HTTP/2 over a TLS end-to-end encrypted connection. Support for client certificate authentication further increases security and trust between client and server.

Reviewer: I think "implicitly secure" oversells the benefits of TLS 😄
Lets just say it can be used to encrypt the connection between the client and server.

// @blowdart

> gRPC is implicitly secure when it's using HTTP/2 over a TLS end-to-end encrypted connection. Support for client certificate authentication further increases security and trust between client and server.

Reviewer 3: 😂 What James said.

I'd also edit the second sentance "Support for client certificate authentication can increase trust between client and server."

# Why we recommend gRPC for Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) developers

This article provides a summary of why ASP.NET Core gRPC is a good fit for Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) developers who want to migrate to modern architectures and platforms.

## Similarity to WCF

Although the implementation and approach are different for gRPC, the experience of developing and consuming services with gRPC should be intuitive for WCF developers. WCF and gRPC are both RPC (remote procedure call) frameworks and the underlying goal is the same: make it possible to code as though the client and server are on the same platform, without needing to worry about networking.

Both platforms share the principle of declaring and then implementing an interface, even though the process for declaring that interface is different. The different types of RPC calls that gRPC supports map well to the bindings available to WCF services. For more information and examples, see [Migrate a WCF solution to gRPC](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/architecture/grpc-for-wcf-developers/migrate-wcf-to-grpc).

## Benefits of gRPC

gRPC stands above other solutions for the following reasons.

### Performance

> gRPC uses HTTP/2.  HTTP/2 is a smaller, faster binary protocol than HTTP/1.1, which is more efficient for computers to parse. HTTP/2 also supports multiplexing requests over a single connection. Multiplexing enables multiple requests to be sent over one connection without requests blocking each other. (In HTTP/1.1, this issue is known as "head-of-line (HOL) blocking.") gRPC uses the Protobuf, an efficient binary format, to serialize messages. Protobuf messages are small in size and use less bandwidth than text-based formats. gRPC is a good solution to use for mobile devices and over slower networks where bandwidth is important.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
gRPC uses HTTP/2.  HTTP/2 compared to HTTP/1.1, HTTP/2:

* Is a smaller, faster binary protocol.
* Is more efficient for computers to parse.
* Supports multiplexing requests over a single connection. Multiplexing enables multiple requests to be sent over one connection without requests blocking each other. In HTTP/1.1, the blocking is known as "head-of-line (HOL) blocking."

gRPC uses the Protobuf, an efficient binary format, to serialize messages. Protobuf messages are small in size and use less bandwidth than text-based formats. gRPC is a good solution to use for mobile devices and over slower networks where bandwidth is important.
```

### Interoperability

> There are gRPC tools and libraries for all major programming languages and platforms, including .NET, Java, Python, Go, C++, Node.js, Swift, Dart, Ruby, and PHP. Thanks to the Protocol Buffers binary wire format and the efficient code generation for each platform, developers can build performant apps while still enjoying full cross-platform support.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There are gRPC tools and libraries for all major programming languages and platforms, including .NET, Java, Python, Go, C++, Node.js, Swift, Dart, Ruby, and PHP. Thanks to the Protocol Buffers binary wire format and the efficient code generation for each platform, developers can build cross-platform performant apps.
```

### Usability and productivity

> gRPC is a comprehensive RPC solution. It works consistently across multiple languages and platforms. It also provides excellent tooling, with much of the necessary boilerplate code automatically generated. Like WCF, gRPC automatically generates messages and a strongly typed client for you. Developer time is freed up to focus on business logic.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
gRPC is a comprehensive RPC solution. It works consistently across multiple languages and platforms. It also provides excellent tooling, with much of the boilerplate code automatically generated. Like WCF, gRPC automatically generates messages and a strongly typed client. Developer time is freed up to focus on business logic.
```

### Streaming

gRPC has full bidirectional streaming, which provides similar functionality to WCF's full duplex services. gRPC streaming can operate over regular internet connections, load balancers, and service meshes.

> ### Deadline/timeouts and cancellation

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Deadlines, timeouts and cancellation
```

> gRPC allows clients to specify a maximum time for an RPC to finish. If the specified deadline is exceeded, the server can cancel the operation independently of the client. Deadlines and cancellations can be propagated through further gRPC calls to help enforce resource usage limits. Clients can stop operations when a deadline is exceeded, or earlier if necessary (for example, because of a user interaction).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
gRPC allows clients to specify a maximum time for an RPC to finish. If the specified deadline is exceeded, the server can cancel the operation independently of the client. Deadlines and cancellations can be propagated through further gRPC calls to help enforce resource usage limits. Clients can stop operations when a deadline is exceeded, or earlier if necessary. For example,  clients can stop operations because of a user interaction.
```

Reviewer 4: Per [MT](https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/help/contribute/localization-mt-guidance?branch=master) Avoid parenthetical clauses.

### Security

gRPC can use TLS and HTTP/2 to provide an end-to-end encrypted connection between the client and the server. Support for client certificate authentication further increases security and trust between client and server.

## gRPC as a migration path for WCF to .NET Core and .NET 5

The release of .NET Core 3.0 marked a shift in the way that Microsoft delivers remote communication solutions to developers who want to deliver services across a range of platforms. .NET Core and .NET 5 will not offer server-side support for the Windows Communication Foundation (WCF). With the release of ASP.NET Core 3.0, it does however provide built-in gRPC functionality.

> ## Get Started

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Get started
```

---
title: Why migrate WCF to ASP.NET Core gRPC
author: markrendle
description: A summary of why ASP.NET Core gRPC is a good fit for Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) developers who want to migrate to modern architectures and platforms.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.0'
ms.author: wpickett
ms.date: 09/02/2020
no-loc: ["ASP.NET Core Identity", cookie, Cookie, Blazor, "Blazor Server", "Blazor WebAssembly", "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: grpc/wcf
---

# Why we recommend gRPC for Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) developers

This article provides a summary of why ASP.NET Core gRPC is a good fit for Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) developers who want to migrate to modern architectures and platforms.

## Similarity to WCF

Although the implementation and approach are different for gRPC, the experience of developing and consuming services with gRPC should be intuitive for WCF developers. WCF and gRPC are RPC (remote procedure call) frameworks with the same goal: 

* Make it possible to code as though the client and server are on the same platform.
* Provide a simplified portable networking API.

> Both platforms share the requirement of declaring and implementing an interface, although the process for declaring the interface is different. The many types of RPC calls that gRPC supports map well to the bindings available to WCF services. For more information and examples, see [Migrate a WCF solution to gRPC](/dotnet/architecture/grpc-for-wcf-developers/migrate-wcf-to-grpc)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Both platforms share the requirement of declaring and implementing an interface, although the process for declaring the interface is different. The many types of RPC calls that gRPC supports map well to the bindings available to WCF services. For more information and examples, see [Migrate a WCF solution to gRPC](/dotnet/architecture/grpc-for-wcf-developers/migrate-wcf-to-grpc).
```

## Benefits of gRPC

gRPC provides a better framework than other approaches for the following reasons.

### Performance

gRPC uses HTTP/2.  HTTP/2 compared to HTTP/1.1, HTTP/2:

* Is a smaller, faster binary protocol.
* Is more efficient for computers to parse.
* Supports multiplexing requests over a single connection. Multiplexing enables multiple requests to be sent over one connection without requests blocking each other. In HTTP/1.1, the blocking is known as "head-of-line (HOL) blocking."

gRPC uses the Protobuf, an efficient binary format, to serialize messages. Protobuf messages are:

> * Small in size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fast to serialize and deserialize.
```

Replaced "Small in size." because it just repeats the second point.

* Use less bandwidth than text-based formats. 

gRPC is a good solution to use for mobile devices and over slower networks where bandwidth is important.

### Interoperability

There are gRPC tools and libraries for all major programming languages and platforms, including .NET, Java, Python, Go, C++, Node.js, Swift, Dart, Ruby, and PHP. Thanks to the Protocol Buffers binary wire format and the efficient code generation for each platform, developers can build cross-platform performant apps.

### Usability and productivity

gRPC is a comprehensive RPC solution. It works consistently across multiple languages and platforms. It also provides excellent tooling, with much of the boilerplate code automatically generated. Like WCF, gRPC automatically generates messages and a strongly typed client. Developer time is freed up to focus on business logic.

### Streaming

gRPC has full bidirectional streaming, which provides similar functionality to WCF's full duplex services. gRPC streaming can operate over regular internet connections, load balancers, and service meshes.

### Deadlines, timeouts and cancellation

> gRPC allows clients to specify a maximum time for an RPC to finish. If the specified deadline is exceeded, the server can cancel the operation independently of the client. Deadlines and cancellations can be propagated through further gRPC calls to help enforce resource usage limits. Clients can stop operations when a deadline is exceeded, or earlier if necessary. For example,  clients can stop operations because of a user interaction.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
gRPC allows clients to specify a maximum time for an RPC to finish. If the specified deadline is exceeded, the server can cancel the operation independently of the client. Deadlines and cancellations can be propagated through subsequent gRPC calls to help enforce resource usage limits. Clients can stop operations when a deadline is exceeded, or earlier if necessary. For example, clients can stop operations because of a user interaction.
```

### Security

gRPC can use TLS and HTTP/2 to provide an end-to-end encrypted connection between the client and the server. Support for client certificate authentication further increases security and trust between client and server.

## gRPC as a migration path for WCF to .NET Core and .NET 5

> The release of .NET Core 3.0 marked a shift in the way that Microsoft delivers remote communication solutions to developers who want to deliver services across a range of platforms. .NET Core and .NET 5 won't offer server-side support for WCF. With the release of ASP.NET Core 3.0, it does however provide built-in gRPC functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET Core and .NET 5 marks a shift in the way that Microsoft delivers remote communication solutions to developers who want to deliver services across a range of platforms. .NET Core and .NET 5 support [calling WCF services](/dotnet/core/additional-tools/wcf-web-service-reference-guide), but won't offer server-side support for hosting WCF.

There are two recommended paths for modernizing WCF apps:

* gRPC is built on modern technologies and has emerged as the most popular choice across the developer community for RPC apps. Starting with .NET Core 3.0, modern .NET platforms have excellent support for gRPC. Migrating WCF services to use gRPC helps provide the RPC features, performance, an interoperability needed in modern apps.

* [CoreWCF](https://github.com/CoreWCF/CoreWCF) is a community effort to bring support for hosting WCF services to .NET Core and .NET 5. A preview release is available and the project is working towards being production ready. CoreWCF only supports a subset of WCF's features, and .NET Framework apps that migrate to use it will need code changes and testing to be successful. CoreWCF is a good choice if an app has to maintain compatibility with existing clients that call WCF services.
```

Reviewer 2: Agree with James here. We should **definitely** mention CoreWCF

> The release of .NET Core 3.0 marked a shift in the way that Microsoft delivers remote communication solutions to developers who want to deliver services across a range of platforms. .NET Core and .NET 5 will not offer server-side support for the Windows Communication Foundation (WCF). With the release of ASP.NET Core 3.0, it does however provide built-in gRPC functionality.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The release of .NET Core 3.0 marked a shift in the way that Microsoft delivers remote communication solutions to developers who want to deliver services across a range of platforms. .NET Core and .NET 5 won't offer server-side support for WCF. With the release of ASP.NET Core 3.0, it does however provide built-in gRPC functionality.
```

## Get started

> For detailed guidance on building gRPC services in ASP.NET Core for WCF developers, see [ASP.NET Core gRPC for WCF Developers](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/architecture/grpc-for-wcf-developers/)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For detailed guidance on building gRPC services in ASP.NET Core for WCF developers, see [ASP.NET Core gRPC for WCF Developers](/dotnet/architecture/grpc-for-wcf-developers)
```
